fail2ban-subnets
================

## Presentation

```fail2ban-subnets``` aims to provide a way to ban subnets of IPs repeatingly banned by [```fail2ban```][fail2ban] for multiple offenses. It thus uses the ```fail2ban``` logfiles and calculates the most restricted subnet to be banned for these IPs. Using the log file generated by ```fail2ban-subnets```, and a new ```action.d``` script, we can thus create a specific jail in ```fail2ban``` for banning those subnets.

```fail2ban-subnets``` is here to provide what's currently impossible in ```fail2ban```, even if there are issues that are progressing on that side.

## Licence

Copyright (C) 2015       Raphaël Beamonte <<raphael.beamonte@gmail.com>>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  [See the
GNU General Public License for more details] [GPLv2].

## Installation

### Get the code

You can get the code by cloning this repository or downloading the [last version of the zip package][zip]

### Configuration of ```fail2ban-subnets```

You should edit the first part of the ```fail2ban-subnets.py``` file to adjust to your system. All comments on this configuration are provided in the file.

### Configuration of ```fail2ban```

Here's the way I recommand setting ```fail2ban``` to avoid problems in future developments.
These settings are based on a Debian system and consider you got the ```fail2ban-subnets``` files in ```/home/usr/f2b-sn/```, you should adapt them to your needs.

Go to the ```fail2ban``` settings directory of your system **as root**:
```sh
cd /etc/fail2ban
```

Create the directories ```action.d.local``` and ```filter.d.local```:
```sh
mkdir action.d.local filter.d.local
```

Copy the ```fail2ban-subnets``` action and filter files in these new directories:
```sh
cp /home/usr/f2b-sn/action.d.local/* action.d.local/
cp /home/usr/f2b-sn/filter.d.local/* filter.d.local/
```

Add the configuration for the ```fail2ban-subnets``` jail at the end of your local jail:
```sh
cat /home/usr/f2b-sn/jail.local >> jail.local
```

### Run `fail2ban-subnets`

Install the ```fail2ban-subnets``` script to be executed once an hour:
```sh
cp /home/usr/f2b-sn/fail2ban-subnets.py /etc/cron.hourly/fail2ban-subnets
chown root:adm /etc/cron.hourly/fail2ban-subnets
```

**Note:** you could also set a crontab to go more regularly, still *as root*, by running ```crontab -e``` then setting your crontab.

## Issues
Please use the [GitHub integrated issue tracker] [issues] for every problem you can
encounter. Please **DO NOT** use my email for issues or walkthrough.


[fail2ban]: https://github.com/fail2ban/fail2ban
[GPLv2]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html
[zip]: https://github.com/XaF/fail2ban-subnets/archive/master.zip
[issues]: https://github.com/XaF/fail2ban-subnets/issues
